[Music]
every time a shell is removed a crab
loses a potential new home
so these canny crabs have found another
source of housing
each evening the range is clear the
beaches piling up the litter and now the
crabs do something extraordinary this
hermit has found herself a more modern
home in a macro tin with so few shells
around it's an ingenious solution and
she's not alone this is a fast-growing
trend
[Music]
an aluminium fizzy drink can makes a
lightweight home that's worth fighting
for life in the macro tin isn't ideal
and the local Rangers know it so they
leave seashells near the rubbish piles
to help the homeless crustaceans the
crab normally want its body into the
spiral of the shell it's far harder to
grip a straight and slippery can
[Music]
there are plenty of options it's all
about finding a snug fit well she can be
picky if she wants moving house is an
important decision
[Music]
at last the perfect home
Steve knows that most crustaceans aren't
known for their IQ once inside the trap
they haven't got a clue how to get out
the exit is obvious enough to us but
some animals just aren't born with much
in the way of brains but why does the
seafloor here look like a crab graveyard
[Music]
well there's another crab fisherman
living down here in this cave
and it's a much more creative one than
Steve the animal living here shouldn't
really be a problem its closest
relatives are slugs snails and clams
it's a Giant Pacific octopus an animal
with one huge advantage an enormous
brain taking body size into account only
those of birds and mammals are bigger
2/3 of those brain cells or neurons are
actually in its tentacles and it uses
them all to approach the problem of crab
poaching plan a is to smother the prey
with the metal trap in the way that's
not too successful but that huge brain
helps the octopus to get creative and to
think up a dramatically different
strategy
once inside there's an easy meal but
this could be its last breaking in was
easy but the octopus can do something
crabs find impossible
[Music]
a sure sign that an octopus has struck a
trail of empty shells and a frustrated
fisherman what can I say these creative
problem-solving skills set octopus apart
from all other invertebrates at a jungle
hut this female finds a soul
despite being totally wild somehow she
has worked out what to do with it like
us a rainy terns have an opposable thumb
that allows them to grasp and handle
objects with precision over 20 years ago
a rescue orangutan learned how to solve
by watching people constructing the huts
here but this is a totally different and
wild orangutan she seems to take pride
in her work even clearing away the
sawdust
she's so smart she uses her feet was a
vice to steady the branch filming a wild
born and free living orangutan mastering
this complex task is remarkable but no
she's not the only orangutan sawing
spy orangutan has joined her
[Music]
it seems to be bringing out a
competitive streak she's becoming even
more enthusiastic
[Music]
but for a novice sewing is tiring work
she's lost all momentum then finally
calls her today spy orangutan may have
machine-like stamina but is the
astonishing and versatile mind of the
real orangutan that's one the day she
certainly earned her rest
in southern Thailand long-tailed
macaques are sometimes known as Ling
tarle sea monkeys and it's not hard to
see why
[Music]
[Applause]
but this isn't just about having a good
time
[Music]
like their temple visiting cousins
they've got a clever plan they've
adapted their lives to the rhythm of the
sea and twice a day low tide reveals a
feast nutritious shellfish trouble is
shells are tough to crack but ever
resourceful these macaques have found a
smart solution they've worked out that
rocks make perfect shellfish hammers
[Music]
although clearly some macaques are
little smarter than others
[Music]
either way low tide provides a seafood
bounty
[Music]
stone tool use is a rare skill among
monkeys but these macaques can only
benefit from it by being completely in
tuned with the cycles of nature living
in the grounds of a Hawaiian hotel is a
night heron the staff called him Hank
his home is an all-inclusive resource
where food is literally thrown at you
[Music]
but Hank always has trouble going up
against the larger swamps when he
finally does get his beak on some food
he does something completely unexpected
he doesn't eat it but instead appears to
have a plan
[Music]
Hank takes the bread he places it in the
water
and he waits he could eat it at any time
but he doesn't
[Music]
that wasn't part of the plan
[Applause]
[Music]
to fish in a single mouthful
Hank is catching fish by using the bread
as a tool and he clearly knows how
valuable it is he doesn't waste it on
fish too big for him to eat but instead
takes it out of harm's way
[Music]